---
title: '2026 Mount Aso, Japan helicopter accident'
authors: 'mifi'
tags: [travel, japan]
---

Probably my scariest travel experience ever happened right here, on the volcano of Mount Aso in southwestern Japan, and it's not what you think. Please help me solve this riddle of an experience which I cannot explain.

<!--truncate-->

At around 12pm on feb 22, we arrived at the parking lot of this hugely popular attraction, and to our surprise the parking lots are quite empty. But there are huge crowds walking around aimlessly in and around the tourist information center. After a while we notice that the last bit of the road leading up to the volcano rim is closed off, and at the information center there's a sign saying "Mount Aso closed due to sightseeing incident". Suddenly I remembered that on Google Maps when I checked the day before it said that the attraction was temporarily closed. Now I'm curious, so I "Google Mount Aso incident", and sure enough, up comes several news articles dated february 20, 2026 stating that a helicopter and its 3 passengers had been "recovered". Oh no, so they're still working on recovering the helicopter and that's why the crater is still closed, I thought. Then I scroll further and I find a Wikipedia article named "2026 Mount Aso helicopter crash". It says:

"On January 20, 2026, a Robinson R44 Raven II helicopter on a sightseeing tour crashed inside Mount Aso.".

Now I'm thinking, what? There were two helicopter incidents at the same mountain exactly 1 month apart? This cannot be possible. There must have been a mistake somewhere. I just conclude that february 20 must be the correct date, and that's why the crater is still closed, because it takes a few days to recover and cleanup the wreckage site, it makes sense.

I start looking around the parking, and it turns out that there is also a hiking trail to go up to the crater, but I see only one other person walking there. I start walking up the trail but I arrived at a gate with a Japanese official guarding it. She shows me a map, and to my surprise we're still allowed to continue hiking, as long as we don't go up to the crater rim (to he left). Cool! I'll just go for a short walk and look at the other trails/peaks in the area.

Meanwhile my curiosity starts to itch, and I start Googling again. Where exactly did this helicopter crash? I found an official video from the Japanese authorities showing the exact coordinates. I plot them into Google Maps and it shows the location right there, inside the crater rim. Yikes! It's not even a remote area, it's right here, in plain sight, 400m opposite the crater rim viewing platform (which is accessible by car but now closed off from tourists). I continue reading the Wikipedia article and I now see the whole timeline of events.

"On January 20 at 10:52 a.m. JST, the helicopter took off and was en route for the local sightseeing flights of Mount Aso. The 3 occupants included 2 Taiwanese tourists and the pilot. All three onboard, including two Taiwanese tourists and the pilot, remain missing (to this day)."

"On January 20, the Kumamoto police force succeeded in finding the crashed helicopter in the afternoon. However, the rescue was halted due to ground freezing, volcanic gases and strong winds on Mount Aso. As of February 11, rescue operations could not begin after the accident."

"On February 18, almost a month after the incident, the fire department and the police force announced that they had spotted what appeared to be three people on board a crashed sightseeing helicopter via drone."

That's when I realised, the helicopter wreckage is sitting there, with 3 dead people inside, and it's been sitting there for *almost a month* before the Japanese authorities decided to fly a drone to look for survivors. I'm now writing this on mar 12, the helicopter is still there and the crater is still closed.

When I asked about this in a Japanese subreddit, someone said that "there were news when the accident happened that the area has laws against flying drones because they won't be able to retrieve the drone if it went down - they probably have to wait to get permission before flying a drone". In other words: The authorities deem the area so dangerous that they don't allow flying a drone there in fear of not being able to recover a lost drone, yet they allow helicopters flying in the same area, every day **with tourists**. It doesn't make any sense. In an emergency we must have prioritizations. If they flew a drone as soon as they heard of the accident, they could have even had the chance to save lives! But after 1 month the chance of survivals is near 0. Is Japan really so crippled by bureaucracy that it takes a month to approve an emergency drone flight to potentially save human lives?

I feel very sad for the victims' families, and I'm shocked that this can happen in such a developed country like Japan. I think if an accident like this happened in any other country in the world, people would throw everything they have and do what it takes in hopes of saving lives. Yet here we are, almost 2 months later. No more news from Japanese authorities. What am I missing here?

Sources:
- https://www.reddit.com/r/japannews/comments/1r7za4k/aso_sightseeing_helicopter_accident_three_people/
- https://www.reddit.com/r/japannews/comments/1qhtj09/helicopter_with_2_passengers_from_taiwan_goes/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Mount_Aso_helicopter_crash
- https://earth.google.com/web/search/32%c2%b053%2708.0%22N+131%c2%b005%2715.0%22E/@32.88613981,131.08494281,1232.37526816a,1030.57823439d,35y,-13.84207642h,60.73807392t,0.00000119r/data=CmQaNhIwGRNlyuJZcUBAIc3MzMzMYmBAKhwzMsKwNTMnMDguMCJOIDEzMcKwMDUnMTUuMCJFGAEgASImCiQJnqb72s79NkARmqb72s79NsAZuLU2zP89SkAhWzAbPHiISsBCAggBOgMKATBCAggASg0I____________ARAA
